a truce between Israel and Hamas
militants has been extended into a
seventh day Germany the Us and other
countries consider Hamas a terrorist
group negotiations on prolonging the
pause in fighting which began last
Friday came right down to the wire the
truce has brought the first break in the
Israeli bombardment of the Gaza Strip
since the Hamas terrorist attacks on
Israel on October 7th those attacks
killed more than 12200 people and saw
240 taken hostage gaza's Health Ministry
which is run by Hamas says more than
15,000 people in the Gaza Strip have
been killed in Israeli air
strikes let's crawl straight over to our
correspondent in Jerusalem T Kramer
standing by there Tanya the truce has
been extended now how did this extension
come
about well it was really just minutes
before uh the truth was was about to
expire at 7:00 a.m. local time that the
Israeli military released a statement
saying that you know they will prolong
the uh what they described as
operational uh pause that the truths
will continue in light of the uh efforts
by the mediators to release more
hostages this was also then confirmed by
Hamas and also by the main mediator here
Qatar now we understand that
negotiations are underway uh this is
just an extension uh as far as we know
for the next 24 hours and their
negotiations still underway concerning
the list that will be submitted or has
been submitted uh for the uh potential
release of the hostages uh for later uh
today there's also there reports whether
this list will continue also the remains
uh apparently of some of the hostages
that might have been killed uh in the
past week so this is uh one of the part
of the negotiation and the other part of
the negotiation uh pertains of course to
whether this uh truth will be extended
at the same time there has been a
shooting attack a terror attack this
morning in Jerusalem uh two attackers as
we understand from the police uh were
getting out of their car at a bus stop
and were firing at a bus stop and the uh
First Responders are saying that uh one
24 yearold woman was killed we also
understand just in the past minutes or
so uh that another person has died of
his wounds and we have four more
seriously injured in this shooting
attack as well as three uh people that
were lightly injured that were all taken
uh to
hospitals okay well getting back to
those hostages that were released Hamas
apparently released 16 hostages that
it's been holding in Gaza yesterday
among those freed are two Russian women
for Tai Nationals and 10 Israelis all
women and children uh women and
teenagers rather some with dual
nationality they include citizens of
Germany the Netherlands and the us we'll
come back to them in a moment but first
this
report finally free escorted by masked
Hamas gunman the latest group of
hostages to be released was received
warmly by the International Red Cross in
Rafa at the Egyptian
border
as the footage was beamed back to Israel
there were joyful Embraces and tears of
relief among the host's loved ones as
weeks of worry came to an
end I finally saw him briefly he seems
okay overall cute and nice as usual and
I hope that emotionally he's resilient
and strong and he will get over what he
went through I still don't know what he
went through and tomorrow I expect to
see him with my my own eyes meet him hug
him kiss
him I really didn't know what's
happening with him and in the moment
that I saw him right now I was I had no
words like was a crazy feeling amid the
celebrations there remained concern for
those still held captive it is uh I'm
very happy about
it and yet uh my mother is there so uh
it is also sad for me uh because she's
in the she was supposed to be released
she's 70 she's uh
wounded Israel released 30 Palestinian
prisoners comprising 14 women and 16
children according to the qari foreign
Ministry many of those released are
teenagers accused of throwing stones and
firebombs during confrontations with
Israeli
forces
so Tanya uh 16 more hostages released by
Hamas yesterday what are the hostages
who've been released so far been saying
about their
ordeal well so far we heard mainly from
their relatives because the hostages
themselves are a bit shielded away from
uh the public but there have been some
accounts here uh in the Israeli media uh
for example most of them say uh
basically that in the first weeks you
know they were getting enough food but
that in the past uh uh weeks uh two
weeks or so uh you know the food rations
were getting smaller that they didn't
really have enough food for most of the
elderly patients uh what we heard from
the medical staff that were treating
them uh some of them didn't get their
medication uh they needed also there was
the case uh we heard about a young
teenager he said that uh you know you
know he was held in a separate room
there were also talks uh of beatings
that it was harsh so uh there different
accounts that we getting but at the
moment uh it seems to know that they're
a bit shielded away out of the spotlight
and but there will be more of these
accounts of course coming because
there's also a lot of interest to
understand uh where they were uh held uh
during uh most of these almost now two
months since October 7 and what happened
to them uh during their
captivity T thank you very much for now
that was our correspondent Tanya krer in
Jerusalem in return for Hamas freeing
hostages that uh freeing hostages Israel
has been releasing Palestinians held in
Israeli jails by Tuesday a total of 180
Palestinians had been released uh Tanya
Kramer who we just uh were speaking to
there filed this report about one of
those Palestinians released a
17-year-old whose family says he was
arrested and detained after throwing
firebombs for days now Amani M has been
anxiously waiting for this moment her
17-year-old son Ham was expected to be
released from an Israeli prison as part
of the delicate truce agreement between
Israel and
Hamas he's been in prison for 10 months
I haven't heard from him since October
7th I'm just waiting for him to come
home
and then a moment of joy and
relief Hamza was 16 when he was arrested
the Israeli prosecution accused him of
amongst other things supporting
terrorism Grievous bodily harm and arson
on nationalist grounds his family said
he was throwing Molotov cocktails he was
never sentenced he is one of the under
18year olds that Israel agreed to
release from prison many are still still
being held in administrative detention
I'm just excited to be among my people
and with my family I feel extremely
happy
now nobody here wants to talk Politics
as there's fear that they could be
easily
rearrested Amani Al as a mother is
worried about her son's
health I'm upset my son wasn't like this
every week he had a haircut he was
wearing nice clothes he's not like he
used to be changed a
lot for now the family is just relieved
that their son is back
home Let's cross over to journalist hm
Balia now he reported from Gaza
extensively When The War Began and he
joins us now from the Jordanian Capital
Aman H what are Palestinians saying
about the release of of prisoners uh
Palestinian prisoners from Israeli
jails it's important to say say that um
the the prisoners uh or theones cause is
very important for the Palestinian
Society uh Palestinians usually see the
the Palestinian and and Israeli jails
are heroes um they are fighting or they
fote for for the Palestinian cause so
any release of these PR prisoners would
be welcomed um all the Palestinians they
were welcoming this release maybe they
were they didn't agree on the deal or
they disagreed with this deal um I mean
would worth it or not but the release of
the pr prisoners themselves were uh were
welcomed there are reports ham of an
increased number of detentions of
Palestinians happening now in the
occupied West Bank uh what can you tell
us about
that yes true according to the official
numbers we are talking about uh over
3,000 were were arrested since October 7
um those um arrests from different
cities whether in in in West Bank or
east Jerusalem or some of them in um
Palestinian Israelis in in Israeli
cities um those those people probably um
majority of them they were arrested
before and they were released for
different reasons uh some of them were
accused of throwing stones or um Molotov
uh or or those who are you know known as
Hamas supporters and and and or those
who are um uh writing over the social
media supporting Hamas or other factions
or the fighting um against
Israel now you're in Aman but I know
you're in in touch very closely with
people who are still in Gaza where you
used to have your home um another day of
truce what does this mean for the people
of
Gaza
it's uh very important I mean people was
um was um very worried that the the bow
would be over um Everybody um um was
talking about this whether would be
extension will be more days um um this
is uh very essential for them the the
previous six days were weren't enough
for them to to to um to have a relief uh
still they are suffering there there is
lack of everything food water and and
other basic needs like electricity or or
Internet or even the telecommunication
is very poor so the extension is is more
hope that they will live more uh of
course the fear is that coming um at one
at some point that it will be over and
the fighting might be
resumed ham thank you very much for
talking with us again that was
journalist hen Balia in Iman
Jordan thank you
well for more I'm joined Now by Hans
yakob Shindler he's a former German
Diplomat and a Middle East expert who is
currently a senior director at the
counter extremism project thanks for
being with us H we've seen an extend
we're seeing an extension to the
ceasefire between Hamas and Israel the
temporary ceasefire it's been extended
now for another day this has just been
negotiated what do you make of these
Arrangements between Hamas and Israel
thank you so much for having me look
this is a extraordinarily complex
hostage negotiations not only because of
the number of individuals held in Gaza
but also because they are held by
several groups none of which are
directly answerable to Hamas plus of
course Hamas is using these negotiations
to make political points right so when
Hamas says they can't find hostages I
would take this with a grain of salt
this could be just a delaying tactic
because what Hamas wants to achieve is a
regaining of ground within the
Palestinian Community which it has lost
because it cost the Palestinian
Community pretty much all of Gaza and
thousands of Palestinian lives you
mentioned that there are other militant
groups that holding hostages in Gaza
talk to us about those who what groups
are we talking about here yeah chiefly
is the Palestinian Islamic Jihad this is
a pure terror group that is much smaller
than Hamas but it's separate and a
competitor to Hamas for power in Gaza
and then according to various sources
there are anywhere between a couple of
dozens to 40 individuals that are held
by other groups in Gaza primarily
criminal networks that give themselves
some fancy names but we are talking
about smuggling and criminal networks
these also are not part of hamus but in
competition to amas but for amas it's
going to be important that it and only
it exchanges these hostages with with
Israel that's the only way they can
score political points So you you're
talking about a competition between the
Palestinian Islamic Jihad and Hamas both
of these groups I understand are get
support from Iran is that how you
understand it absolutely so Palestinian
Islamic Jihad was the original group
that Iran adopted at his first Bry in
the Palestinian territories Hamas the
relationship only really became very
intensive after
2012 so both of them are Iranian proxies
however um Hamas has political Ambitions
Palestinian Islamic Jihad doesn't and
there is always been a competition
outside killing Israelis of course for
both this is one of the chief aims that
they want to achieve you you you say
you're skeptical about Hamas making
claims that it doesn't know where all
the hostages are but you're also saying
that there are different groups who may
be holding these hostages is it really
clear how many hostage are there the sad
truth is we only know what Hamas tells
us hence there is no independent
confirmation whether it's 30 with the
palestini Jihad or 50 with the palestin
Islamic Jihad and Hamas uses this
uncertainty where those individuals are
to really demonstrate to the Palestinian
Community but also to its wider Global
support network that it is in charge it
is in control of these negotiations not
Israel unfortunately this is always the
case when a host taker negotiates with
the government we're sitting in Berlin
of course it's very difficult to say
what's really going on inside Gaza not
that many people know uh but Hamas is
saying that some hostages were killed by
Israeli air strikes do you lend any
Credence to that do you believe it I
think given the intensity of the
military operations it is uh likely that
some of the hostages may have been
negatively affected by these military
operations until now until last night
indeed Hamas hadn't mentioned any names
uh and now that they have come out and
said the mother and the two children are
definitely dead I would think that this
is a quite likely that they indeed uh
were affected do you think that the uh
that there's still room for continuing
this temporary ceas fire oh definitely
it's in hamas's interest to do so it is
also in the Israeli government's
interest to get as many hostages out in
this early phase of the negotiations
because this is the what I say
confidence building stage any stage
after this is going to be significantly
more complex and to be very honest Hamas
is going to ask for more when it comes
to the military uh members of the
Israeli Defense Forces that it holds
hostage right now some people
distinguish between the political arm of
Hamas and the military wing of Hamas
Israel says it wants to destroy to
annihilate Hamas completely many think
that's simply not realistic well how do
you see it well well it depends on what
you define as destroying Hamas um really
after the 7th of October making a
distinction between a political wing and
a terrorist Wing is no longer valid the
political Wing is of course responsible
for what its terrorist Wing does in the
organization so of course um there
should be more scope to get more
hostages out um and destroying Hamas
infrastructure militarily in Gaza that's
what Israel can do destroying Hamas
income streams is really a task for the
entire International Community because
it has various income streams Beyond
State support by Iran and by Qatar H
destroying Hamas ideology is going to be
the big push here we've seen with the
Islamic State we've seen with Al-Qaeda
eradicating an ideology is a very
political educational task that is going
to take many many years H yob Shindler
with the counter extremism project thank
you very much thank
you